---
layout: post
title: The Lost Society
date: 2016-07-20 09:50:06 UTC
permalink: /the-lost-society
description: For centuries we fought each other, killing billions of our own kind. We would fight over land, religion, or any petty difference imaginable. Early in our history the death tolls were not outrageous, maybe a few thousand of the population would be killed every year. However, as our technology advanced we perfected more efficient ways to kill each other, and causing irreparable damage to our world.
---
When I search for old Macintoshes to purchase on eBay or Craigslist, I always try and find bundled deals. While I don’t need another Apple Keyboard or Pro Mouse, the bundled deal usually is a better financial option due to the additional items you receive. Additionally, it is helpful to have spares of certain parts such as keyboards, mice, and even power supplies in case you ever need them to repair your devices should they break. Some of these parts are even more expensive than the actual computer, such is the case with the Mac G4 Cube’s power supply which is ridiculously expensive.

However, while it is great to get used accessories in bundle deals, it is increadabliy important to do a quick check of them before plugging them into your Macintosh. When I purchased my Mac G4 Cube on eBay, it came in a bundle with a keyboard, mouse, and to my surprise an Apple Studio Display. This was the first time I ever saw a Studio Display in person, and was very skeptical if it worked due to how cheap the bundle was when I purchased it.

[G4 Cube]

After the package arrived and I unpacked all the parts, I did my usual check of the Macintosh to check for any broken ports or missing components within the computer. The case had a few scuffs and a thick layer of dust and dirt on the inside, but after a few hours of cleaning and double-checking everything was in order, I started to set it up. Disregarding my pervious concerns on if the monitor was working, I quickly plugged it into the DVI port on the underside of the Cube and tried to turn it on. The Cube sounded its startup chime, but then instantly turned off. The monitor never lit up, but the power button on the front face of it did blink for a quick second.

To excited to finally have a Mac G4 Cube, something I had yearned to purchase for years, I unplugged the monitor and attached a VGA monitor. The Cube turned on and worked perfectly. I did a quick Google search for why Studio Monitors would fail to turn on, and prevent a Macintosh to boot, and found a few articles talking about the power draw the monitor pulls form the Macintosh. Some referenced a poor power supply, something I didn’t want to deal with at that time, would be the most probably issue. After a few more searches, I set aside the monitor thinking I would fix it in the future.

Fast forward a few years later when I was unpacking my classic Macintosh collection, I found the monitor and tried to plug it into one of my PowerMac Towers. To my surprise, my PowerMac also did not boot up, similarly to the Cube. I was convinced the monitor was the issue, knowing that my towers were flawless and worked perfectly since I owned them. While I was ready to toss it out or donate it, I did the one thing I should have done from the start, check the pins on the DVI connector.
To my surprise, the pins on the DVI connector were bent, to be exact one of the pins were bent and touching another. This pair of pins stand just a little bit taller than the rest of the pins, and must have been damaged at one point or another by the previous owner. I carefully bent the pin back, hoping that it wouldn’t snap off and then ruin the connector, and then bent down and inspected the tower’s DVI port.

[Picture of VGA and bent port]

Unlike a VGA port, which has fewer pins and a more filled in port, the DVI port consists of a honeycomb of openings. The small walls to the DVI port are incredibly brittle, something I learned the hard way thanks to this Studio Monitor. I went back and inspected the Mac G4 Cube’s DVI port, and no surprise there, the port was damaged by the monitor’s connector. Figuring if worse to comes to worse and I ruin the port, I can always usage the VGA port or purchase a new graphics card for my Tower if I can not fix the port. Taking a set of eyeglass screwdrivers, I carefully pushed the thin wall back into place, separating the connector back to its original shape.

[Picture of fixed Port]

While the fix isn’t perfect, I’m still very careful when I plug in a DVI connector, it did work. The monitor works perfectly, although there is a small burn in spot on the screen, but I’m happy with having an official Apple monitor. I will be using this monitor for my final ultimate Macintosh Classic. While this issue was somewhat easy to repair, when dealing with older computers and accessories, it is incredibly important to do a few pass overs on them before plugging them in. For some of these computers, doing big repairs on them could cost a ton and more than the actual computer since some parts are already becoming hard to find. All of that can be avoided if you are just a bit smarter than I am and inspect your accessories and ports.